[Music]
Good day I'm Norman Wildberger and today we're
going to talk about area pinning down what an
area is is seemingly easy but a little bit tricky
there's an obvious notion which doesn't quite work
as well as you might think the obvious notion is
to use little squares so we work in a grid plane
situation we say that a little square or cell has
area one and then in terms of that we can create
areas for a lot of other figures for example a
rectangle like this will have area six half of
it forming a triangle will have then area three
and we can get the area of a general triangle for
example this one by judicious cutting and pasting
the area of this rectangle then subtract the area
of this triangle this triangle and this triangle
so what do we really want this notion of area to
satisfy well first of all the area of an M byn
rectangle better be M * n we want the notion to
be additive so if we have one figure fub1 and
another figure F2 right beside it and together
they make a figure F then it's reasonable to
suppose that the area of f is the sum of the
area of F1 plus the area of FS2 and a more subtle
requirement that works really well we'll see later
on is a notion of linearity what do that means
is that if we have a triangle AB C and we keep
A and B fixed and just vary C suppose we move C
along a line linearly so with constant speed then
we would expect that the area of this triangle
should also behave linearly that works up to a
point with this notion until we get to this zero
area situation down here and then after that it
becomes positive again and so the linearity is
destroyed to replace this notion with another one
the key is to replace squares with triangles
triangles are a more flexible uh basis for a
notion of area and in fact what we'll see now is
that we don't really need triangles so much as
oriented triangles okay so what is an oriented
triangle well it is a triangle together with
an orientation which means we choose a way of
going around the three vertices we can either
go around this way or we can go around this way so
a triangle has two possible orientations and if we
choose one of those possible orientations we get
what's called an oriented triangle so when we say
A1 A2 A3 with a vector sign over it we mean the
triangle A1 A2 A3 together with the orientation
going this way A1 first then A2 then A3 then A1
then A2 and so on so let's take that oriented
triangle and we'll consider these two vectors V1
emanating there V2 emanating there we'll suppose
that those vectors have coordinates X1 y1 and
X2 Y2 then in terms of those numbers the signed
area of the oriented triangle is defined to be
this number here here it's X1 Y2 - X2 y1 / 2
this * this - this * this all over two and that's
an expression that we've seen quite a lot already
in the series now one thing we have to do is to
demonstrate that that's actually well defined that
it doesn't depend on having chosen A1 as the basis
for our vectors emanating and that's accomplished
by this fall following theorem in this theorem we
use slightly different notation suppose that A1
is the point X1 y1 A2 is the point X2 Y2 and A3 is
the point X3 Y3 then the theorem is that this area
that we've just defined up here turns out to be
this expression it's got six terms they alternate
plus and minus X1 Y2 - X2 y1 those naturally
go together then X2 Y3 - X3 Y2 those naturally
go together plus x3 y1 - X1 Y3 those naturally
go together this expression is one of the most
important expressions in all of mathematics it
comes up in many many different situations and
this expression is obviously after you stare at
it for a little while it's cyclically symmetric
so in other words if you interchange one with two
and two with three and three with one then the
whole thing stays the same that's telling us that
this notion here is actually independent of which
Vector we started our definition from so this is
a very important formula and we could have also
started with this as the definition of the signed
area let's have a look at an example so here is a
triangle A1 A2 A3 with points 1 one A1 A2 is 73 A3
is 25 and we would like to know what is the area
of this triangle well let's start off with our
naive definition and take the area of this big
rectangle which is 6 * 4 and subtract the areas
of these three green triangles this one here has
area 6 * 2 over 2 this one has area 5 * 2 over 2
and this one has Area 1 * 4 / 2 when we calculate
that out we get 11 for the area of the triangle
A1 A2 A3 now let's have a look at that signed area
definition so we'll start with A1 will emanate
from here getting that vector and that Vector
A1 A2 is the vector 62 A1 A3 is the vector 14 and
then the definition says that all right the area
is then 6 * 4 - 2 * 1 all over 2 which is also
11 and what about that theorem expression that
occurs well if you plug in these various values
you get this times this minus this time this and
then plus this time this- this time this and then
rotate it around this time this minus this time
this all over two and you work that out you get
the same answer 11 so all these Notions agree
as they should another another important case is
when we think about a parallelogram instead of a
triangle so suppose that we have a vector here
AB B another Vector C D and the parallelogram
formed by those two vectors then in this case the
area of this parallelogram will be twice the area
of that triangle formed by those two vectors so it
will just be a D minus BC not over two but just by
itself the real power power of this
definition of area comes about when we
look at polygons figures with more than
three vertices we're going to do that
next time I hope you'll join me I'm Norman
wildberger and thanks for [Music] listening